Let's look at some ways to
generate labels for your data.
We're going to focus on two
of the most common methods.
That's process feedback or
direct labeling and
human labeling.
There's a variety of methods,
process feedback
or direct labeling
is great and we'll
talk about that.
Human labeling as well as
a very common method is
applied to create labels.
But you should also be aware
and we'll talk about later
some other more advanced methods,
semi-supervised labeling,
where we label part
of our data set,
active learning where
we really try to focus
on the part that
is most important.
Weak supervision which is
a programmatic way
of creating labels.
But we won't be talking
about that in this module.
We'll really focus
on the first two,
which are the most common,
process feedback or direct
labeling and human labeling.
You need labels if you're going
to do supervised learning,
you need labels for your data.
Two simple ways of doing that are
processed feedback
and human labeling.
But what does that mean?
Let's look at some examples,
for process feedback,
a very typical example
is click-through rates.
Actual versus predicted
click-through rates.
Suppose you have recommendations
that you are giving to a user,
did they actually click on the
things that you recommend?
If they did, you can
label it positive,
if they didn't you can
label it negative.
Human labeling, you
can have humans
look at data and
apply labels to them.
For example, you can ask
cardiologists to look at
MRI images and apply
labels to them.
Why is labeling important
in production ML?
Most businesses and organizations
have a bunch of data,
but if it's not labeled,
you can't use it for
supervised learning.
If you can apply
unsupervised techniques and get
good results, that's great.
But in many cases you really
need to provide learning
to solve the problems that
you're trying to solve.
What that means is that in
most domains you're
going to need to
retrain at some point.
It will depend as
we've talked about
on the domain that you're
working in and the
type of problem.
Some you will just need
to retrain on a very
infrequent basis,
and some, you might need to
retrain several times per day.
Labeling is an ongoing and
often critical process
in your application
and your business.
But at the end of the day,
creating a training data set for
supervised learning
requires labels,
you need to think about how
you're going to do that.
Direct labeling, which
we'll talk about
first or process feedback,
is a way of continuously creating
new training data that you're
going to use to
retrain your model.
You're taking the features
themselves from the
inference requests that
your model is getting.
The predictions that your
model is being asked
to make and the features
that are provided for that.
You get labels for those
inference requests by
monitoring systems and using
the feedback from those
systems to label that data.
One of the things that
you need to solve there
is to join the results that you
get from monitoring
those systems with
the original inference request
which could be hours
or days apart.
You might've run batches on
Monday and you're getting
feedback on Friday.
You need to make
sure that you can do
those joins to
apply those labels.
In some ways you can
think about this as
similar to
reinforcement learning,
where instead of
applying rewards based
on action you're applying
labels based on a prediction.
It's a similar feedback loop.
The advantages, well
process feedback
or direct labeling is great.
If your system and
your domain is set up in a
way that you can do that.
It's often the best answer
because you have labels
you are monitoring,
constantly getting
new training data.
The signals that you get from
your labels are really strong.
You're getting for
click-throughs,
if the user clicked
or didn't click,
it's a very strong signal.
Disadvantages, unfortunately,
in many domains
for many problems,
it's just isn't possible.
Personally, in the problems
I've been asked to solve,
I found very few or I've
been able to do that,
so that's an issue.
The other big thing is that it
tends to be very custom-designed.
Your systems will be unique.
Your problem is unique,
and you're doing custom design,
which isn't the end of the world,
but it'd be great if it was a
little bit more off the shelf.
One of the tools that you can
apply is log analysis tools.
Because often when you're
doing process feedback,
the data is coming
from the log files.
You're monitoring systems
and populating log files.
One good open source tool
for doing that is Logstash.
You can ingest from
multiple sources for
collecting and parsing
and storing logs.
You can index them
in Elasticsearch.
You can push them to storage,
it takes inputs from a variety of
different sources and
databases and so forth.
Great tool and it's
open source too.
Fluentd is another
good open source tool
you can use to collect and parse.
Fluentd comes from the Cloud
Native Computing Foundation
and it connects to a lot
of different platforms.
Again, another great tool.
When you're working on the Cloud,
there's Cloud tools that
are available, as well.
If you're working on
the Google Cloud,
Google Cloud logging
is a great tool to
be able to log your data,
either coming from Google
Cloud or from AWS.
Bind plane is great
for applying on-premise
or hybrid cloud systems.
It's a very powerful
service that's available.
For AWS, their version of
Elasticsearch is available,
so you can apply that.
It's not really strictly
a log analytics tool
but you can apply it
for login analytics.
For Azure, you have
Azure monitors,
so regardless of which
Cloud you're working on,
there's probably log analytics
tooling that you can
use to do log analysis.
Now, let's turn to
human labeling.
In human labeling,
you have people,
humans and we refer
to those as raters.
We ask them to examine data
and assign labels to it.
It sounds simple, it sounds
like it might be painful but
it's the way that a lot of
data is generated and labeled.
You start with raw data
and you give it to
people and you ask them
to apply labels to it.
That's the way that you
create a training data set
that you're going to use to
train or retrain your model.
You started with unlabeled
data and then you need to
recruit human raters or there are
several services that you can
go to where they have pools
of human raters that have
already been recruited.
You need to provide
them with instructions.
Even if it's very simple,
you need to still tell them
what labels they should apply
and what to look for to
decide which label to apply.
The data's then divided
among different
raters in the pool.
Often you send the same
examples to multiple raters,
so that when there's
disagreements you're
aware of that and you can
work to resolve them.
Then you collect
the data and any of
those conflicts that
you have are resolved.
Advantages of the human labeling.
Well, they're labels which,
it's what you're trying to do.
You're trying to
generate labels which
you need for supervised learning.
It's a way to do that and
it's actually a very
common way to do that.
One disadvantage, one issue
here is that depending
on the data that
you have it can be very
complex for a human to
look at it and decide
what the label should be.
Something like this we might
need a radiologist to look
at this and tell us what
the right labels should
be which can be very expensive.
But if you're also talking about
situations where you have
high dimensional data,
it's very difficult for
humans to look at say,
100 different features and
decide with the label is.
There's some disadvantages
to human labeling.
You can have quality
problems where
different humans disagree on
what the label should be.
It can be very slow.
You're asking people to look at
each individual example and it
can take a while to do that.
In cases where the
data's changing quickly,
it is often just
simply not feasible.
Again, it can be very
expensive even if you're
using generalists to look
at very simple data,
you're still employing people
but in cases where you're asking
experts to look at data then
it gets very expensive.
Often what that means
is that you end
up with small data sets because
the cost and the time involved
results in difficult to
get a very large data set.
It can be slow, it
can be difficult,
it can be expensive.
If you're doing something
like an MRI and you've got
a specialist looking at
it again, a problem.
A single rater can
only do a certain number
of examples per day,
so you need to have
a fairly large pool
compared to the number
of examples that you're
trying to label and that means
that recruitment can
be slow and expensive.
Unfortunately, there are
several disadvantages.
Key points here, there's
various methods of doing
labeling and you
really need to think
about the problem that
you're trying to solve,
the data that you have and
how frequently you need
retraining data and how much
data you need and
the costs involved.
There are advantages
and disadvantages to
both process feedback in
human labeling and
there's other techniques,
as well that we'll
talk about later.